In this lecture you will be learning about different ways in which micro services in our system can
communicate with each other.
One way is through normal procedure invocation where a micro service sends a request to another Microcircuits
and waits for response this remote procedure inculcation is simple and familiar to understand and can
be done using technologies such as rest end up wash it drift though it is usually used in a synchronous
manner in the request through a flight pattern.
It's good to keep in mind that other communication patterns are also possible though less common and
usual harder to implement in the illustrated example from the e-commerce Web site.
You can see that the card cost calculator micro service makes a request to the shipping cost calculator
micro service.
In this case it would be to obtain the total of shipping costs for a shopping cart to include this in
the total shopping cart costs and the wait for a response from this micro service those synchronous
communication is usually the most common resistance.
You can also make use of asynchronous communication methods such as asynchronous message based communication
message based communication is most widely used in a synchronous communication when the response is
not immediate required.
And micro service can publish a message on the message bus that will be delivered to other micro services.
This means that the communication is dependent upon message broker such as that MQ.
However it also means that you'll have looser coupling between services a synchronous communication
patterns are usually implemented in this way such as the Publish subscribe better.
However it's interesting to note that a synchronous message based communication can also be used to
implement requests reply synchronous communication.
However this is not recommended as you would end up adding additional complexity and overhead and therefore
you should stick to synchronous communication methods such as remote procedure cation when synchronous
communication is needed and use a synchronous message based communication only synchronous data flows.
In some cases you may end up using some custom or domain specific communication protocols which can
essentially be the only option when communicating to some third party system or a legacy service which
could require protocols for example such as FTB or sympathy or maybe even some custom domain protocol
created by an enterprise system.
Course I recommend that you stick to the most commonly used communication protocols where possible and
distinguish between a synchronous and synchronous communication flows to help design the system better.
Would be going through an assignment that would help you learn how to evaluate communication between
services and establish the ideal communication method in each scenario.